“At  length  the  time  arrived  for  obtaining  the  plates,  the  Urim  and 
Thummim, and the breastplate. On the twenty-second day of Septem-
ber, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven, having gone as usual 
at the end of another year to the place where they were deposited, the 
same heavenly messenger delivered them up to me with this charge: that 
I should be responsible for them; that if I should let them go carelessly, 
or through any neglect of mine, I should be cut off; but that if I would 
use all my endeavors to preserve them, until he, the messenger, should 
call for them, they should be protected.

“I soon found out the reason why I had received such strict charges to 
keep them safe, and why it was that the messenger had said that when I 
had done what was required at my hand, he would call for them. For no 
sooner was it known that I had them, than the most strenuous exertions 
were used to get them from me. Every stratagem that could be invented 
was resorted to for that purpose. The persecution became more bitter 
and severe than before, and multitudes were on the alert continually to 
get them from me if possible. But by the wisdom of God, they remained 
safe in my hands, until I had accomplished by them what was required 
at my hand. When, according to arrangements, the messenger called for 
them, I delivered them up to him; and he has them in his charge until 
this day, being the second day of May, one thousand eight hundred and 
thirty-eight.”

For a more complete account, see Joseph Smith—History in the Pearl

of Great Price.

The ancient record thus brought forth from the earth as the voice of a 
people speaking from the dust, and translated into modern speech by the 
gift and power of God as attested by Divine affirmation, was first pub-
lished to the world in the year 1830 as The Book of Mormon.

A brief exPLAnATiOn AbOUT  
The bOOk Of mOrmOn

The Book of Mormon is a sacred record of peoples in ancient America and

was engraved upon metal plates. Sources from which this record was