compiled include the following:
  1.  The Plates of Nephi, which were of two kinds: the small plates and the 
large plates. The former were more particularly devoted to spiritual 
matters and the ministry and teachings of the prophets, while the lat-
ter were occupied mostly by a secular history of the peoples concerned 
(1 Nephi 9:2–4). From the time of Mosiah, however, the large plates also 
included items of major spiritual importance.

2.  The Plates of Mormon, which consist of an abridgment by Mormon from 
the large plates of Nephi, with many commentaries. These plates also 
contained a continuation of the history by Mormon and additions by his 
son Moroni.

3.  The Plates of Ether, which present a history of the Jaredites. This record 
was abridged by Moroni, who inserted comments of his own and incorpo-
rated the record with the general history under the title “Book of Ether.”
  4.  The  Plates  of  Brass  brought by the people of Lehi from Jerusalem in  
600 b.c. These contained “the five books of Moses, . . . and also a record of  
the Jews from the beginning, . . . down to the commencement of the reign  
of Zedekiah, king of Judah; and also the prophecies of the holy prophets” 
(1 Nephi 5:11–13). Many quotations from these plates, citing Isaiah and 
other biblical and nonbiblical prophets, appear in the Book of Mormon.
The Book of Mormon comprises fifteen main parts or divisions, known, 
with one exception, as books, usually designated by the name of their princi-
pal author. The first portion (the first six books, ending with Omni) is a trans-
lation from the small plates of Nephi. Between the books of Omni and Mosiah 
is an insert called the Words of Mormon. This insert connects the record 
engraved on the small plates with Mormon’s abridgment of the large plates.
The longest portion, from Mosiah through Mormon chapter 7, is a trans-
lation of Mormon’s abridgment of the large plates of Nephi. The concluding 
portion, from Mormon chapter 8 to the end of the volume, was engraved 
by Mormon’s son Moroni, who, after finishing the record of his father’s life, 
made an abridgment of the Jaredite record (as the book of Ether) and later 
added the parts known as the book of Moroni.